# Multi-Dispatching

Multidispatching allows Gaphor to define methods and functions which should
behave differently based on the argument types without cluttering
`if-elif-else` chains and `isinstance` calls.

All you need is inside `generic.multidispatch` module. See examples
below to learn how to use it to define multifunctions and multimethods.

## Multifunctions

Suppose we want to define a function which behaves differently based on
arguments' types. The naive solution is to inspect argument types with
`isinstance` function calls but generic provides us with
`@multidispatch` decorator which can easily reduce the amount of
boilerplate and provide desired level of extensibility:

    from generic.multidispatching import multidispatch

    @multidispatch(Dog)
    def sound(o):
      print "Woof!"

    @sound.when(Cat)
    def sound(o):
      print "Meow!"

Each separate definition of `sound` function works for different
argument types, we will call each such definition *a multidispatch case*
or simply *a case*. We can test if our `sound` multidispatch works as
expected:

    >>> sound(Dog())
    Woof!
    >>> sound(Cat())
    Meow!
    >>> sound(Duck())
    Traceback
    ...
    TypeError

The main advantage of using multifunctions over single function with a
bunch of `isinstance` checks is extensibility \-- you can add more cases
for other types even in separate module:

    from somemodule import sound

    @sound.when
    def sound(o)
      print "Quack!"

When behaviour of multidispatch depends on some argument we will say
that this multidispatch *dispatches* on this argument.

## Multifunctions of Several Arguments

You can also define multifunctions of several arguments and even decide
on which of first arguments you want to dispatch. For example the
following function will only dispatch on its first argument while
requiring both of them:

    @multidispatch(Dog)
    def walk(dog, meters):
      print "Dog walks for %d meters" % meters

But sometimes you want multifunctions to dispatch on more than one
argument, then you just have to provide several arguments to
`multidispatch` decorator and to subsequent `when` decorators:

    @multidispatch(Dog, Cat)
    def chases(dog, cat):
      return True

    @chases.when(Dog, Dog)
    def chases(dog, dog):
      return None

    @chases.when(Cat, Dog)
    def chases(cat, dog):
      return False

You can have any number of arguments to dispatch on but they should be
all positional, keyword arguments are allowed for multifunctions only if
they're not used for dispatch.

## API reference

```eval_rst
.. autoclass:: gaphor.misc.generic.multidispatch.multidispatch
```

```eval_rst
.. autoclass:: gaphor.misc.generic.multidispatch.FunctionDispatcher
```
